And so we did that. We spent about $500 on
high-grade lumber and set up the first loft in
Moore Hall, and consequently became tour guides
to a lot of people from around campus who wanted to
see our construction. So we kind of customized it.
Right. And what else? Television? Had a
television, yes. Had a television, had a stereo.
You had to have a stereo. I would have to say that in
1976 a stereo was much more highly regarded than a
television. It seemed like you could go somewhere
and watch TV, but you couldn't go just anywhere and
listen to the music you wanted to listen to. And did
you have any place to cook and refrigerate?
Cooking was not allowed. We did have a
refrigerator. In fact, everybody had a
refrigerator. We rented those for $50 a semester.
We in fact had two at one time, which I think was a
violation of dorm policy. but nonetheless we did
have two because we needed a place to store all the
fajitas I was bringing back from Laredo and
tortillas and things like that that I
subsequently was giving away and then my father
said you know you may want to curtail that a little
bit because $50 every time you come home for
fajitas is getting out of hand. But interestingly
enough, I had people offer me two and $2.50 a pound
for these fajitas that they couldn't buy in
College Station. And they'd also offer me a little
more if I'd cook them for them. Yeah, we had two
refrigerators and a little warming plate, which I
think again was illegal. The main thing you saw in
dorms were popcorn poppers and refrigerators,
and that was about it. Were there telephones in
every room then? There were telephones in every
room, sure were, and they were all rotary dial.
There wasn't anything as a push button at that
time. Before I left A&M, the push button was
introduced. In the average room in those days,
what kind of beverages were refrigerated in the
rooms? Festive beverages, I would categorize
them as. That is another little anecdote of my
Laredo upbringing.
After the fall of 76 trip to Laredo where about
eight of my buddies in the dorm accompanied me on a
deer hunt, we went to the Cadillac bar and you've
got to understand how popular an 18-year-old, and
the legal drinking age at that time was 18, but how
popular an 18-year-old can be when your father is
the owner of the Cadillac bar in Nuevo Laredo,
Mexico. We had to limit the trip to eight, and deer
hunting was not the draw. But after that trip,
well, during that trip, I introduced those seven
other buddies of mine to some Mexican beer,
Bohemia, Carta Blanca, Corona. And they found out
that we could buy a case of that for as little as
$3.70. And I think we brought back 16 cases of beer.
So yes, at that time, we did have some beer in our
refrigerators. As far as you know, in those years,
how often did a student get drunk in the dormitory?
Haskell, I never got drunk in the dormitory, but I
did see one person who was, as I would categorize
it, really out of control drunk in my history at
A&M, and that was it. I never saw just a whole lot of
drunken Aggies in our dorm. And in that era, did
Aggies normally drink beer or did they drink
whiskey and other? Beer. Beer. Beer. While we're
on that topic, what were the most popular student
hangouts for beer in those days? The Dixie Chicken
was only two years old. when I got to A&M, and it
didn't enjoy the notoriety that it does today, but
the proximity was such that you could walk to the
chicken from Moore Hall in the span of about four
minutes. So it was the premier spot for us. There
was a place called the Sports Club that went out of
business while I was at A&M. that was quite
popular, particularly with athletes. It was more
of a discotheque at that time. The Hall of Fame was a
Thursday or Friday night regular, and that was
because you had the opportunity to dance there
that you didn't have at the Dixie Chicken. What
about Sparky's? Was it good? was really unknown to
me during my years at A&M. And the only time I really
knew much about it was when some friends of mine who
were in the corps told me to meet them at Sparky's.
And I did, but it was predominantly a corps
hangout. When you and your buddies went off
campus, did you ever encounter any difficulties
of civilian and corps members off campus? None
whatsoever. Never saw it. In all my experiences,
whether it was the a student experience like
bonfire or an academic experience like studying
together or just student leadership. I never saw
that animosity or anything like that. What about
the, using the politically correct word,
diversity? How diverse was the student body and
how were minority student body individuals
treated? I would have to categorize this as more of
an international student versus minorities,
domestic minorities, if you will.
I have one recollection of a very sad experience
that I witnessed in the registration process over
at Heaton Hall, where an international student
was having difficulty registering, and the
young, not the young, but the woman behind the
desk, instead of maybe just listening a little
more attentively, spoke louder as if he didn't
understand, and his hearing was perfectly fine,
and ultimately just
kind of treated him in a very degrading way and
shuffled him off and I took that opportunity to
visit with that person. It was very
disappointing. He was from Panama and since I
spoke Spanish it was an easy conversation for me to
have and helped him out and to this day I still keep
in touch with him. But as far as minorities go, my
background was such that I was a minority. And all
of a sudden, when I came to A&M, I had never seen as
many blonde-haired, blue-eyed girls in my whole
life. And that's why I quickly fell out of love in
1975. I would have to categorize A&M as a very
inclusive atmosphere. I just didn't see any real
challenge to a multicultural problem. I think
that's true. I've always said the key thing, are
you an Aggie? Come on, if you're an Aggie, let's go.
That's right. If you're not and don't like it, well
fine, hit the road. No, I enjoyed, I was invited to
play in what was then known as the Pan American
Games, which I guess historically had been four
Central American countries, and it was nothing
more than a softball tournament, a swimming
volleyball weekend, golf, basketball I think was
introduced at one point, soccer. But one of the
real highlights of my time at A&M was every spring
playing in the Pan American games and being
invited to do so just because I was from Laredo,
spoke Spanish, and appreciated their culture.
And that meant something to me. Okay, please, I'm
reading my notes now, please recall some of the
jokes, pranks, or other good bull that you may have
known about during your years at A&M, whether you
were involved or not. Okay.
Well, I'll just be very honest with you. By
default, once again, in living in that corner
room, by happenstance, also found out that the key
to my room was known as a passkey. This was brought
to my attention by a fellow who I had lent my key to to
get into my dorm and found out that it opened his
room just by default once again. And so we tried it
on a few other doors and found out it opened every
room in the dorm, including the dorm, the basement
door. where we found a cache of fireworks in the
fall of 1976. And this made me quite popular with
some of my buddies when we needed access to those
fireworks or other items that had been
sequestered down there. But in the spring of 1977,
this all came to a crashing end when a fellow named
Willie Gaines, class of 1979, who is now a very
prominent doctor here in College Station, was the
fourth floor RA, and early in the morning,
He came walking down the first floor hall and heard
something and took his own passkey, opened up that
basement door, went down the little steps, and
found me and two of my buddies neatly wrapping up in
a pillowcase fireworks and some other things that
had been confiscated. And he was very polite but
very firm and said, How did y'all get down here? And
I finally had to fess up. Well, that was the end of my
passkey days. But the results of some of that over a
six, seven month period were bottle rockets
across the quad, fireworks at two in the morning,
fireworks under doors, fireworks in the air
conditioning and heating vents. And I was a part of
that, I must admit. One of the real ugly things I
think that took place, turned out to be ugly
anyway, was we had a head resident on our floor that
just wasn't in tune with the rest of the dorm.
I was literally talked into this prank, and we were
out in the country, and we found a goat, and we
thought it would be a neat thing if we turned that
goat loose in this fellow's dorm room while he was
gone for the weekend. Our thoughts were that the
goat would just maybe defecate in some strategic
locations, and that would be it. We didn't realize
that that goat would not only defecate and urinate
but proceed to eat everything it could find within
its reach, whether it was wood, metal, paper,
toothpaste, cologne, you name it. And so the
byproduct of that, pardon the pun, was some of his
refuse was quite aromatic and quite inconsistent
with that of a normal goat out in the pasture. And it
just added to the... It was just hard to believe. We
thought our head resident was gone on Friday,
coming home on Saturday. He had actually left
Friday afternoon and wasn't coming home till
early, early Sunday morning. So while we thought
he would find the goat midday Saturday, he didn't
find the goat until mid-morning Sunday. And it is
quite amazing, Haskell, what a mature goat can do
in the span of about 60 hours to an eight by 10 dorm
room. Did any students get punished for that? Yes,
I did. I did. In fact, I was brought before the, I
think his name was Rick Crow. I think he's still
here. And I had to go see him and justify why I had
done that. And there were some weekends that I had
to sit and do some service around the dorm, which I
did, and my buddies had to do as well. And I paid the
price. What about, were there drown-outs in
civilian dorms? Oh, yes. Oh, gosh, yes. crap outs,
whatever you want to call them.
I won't give you the definitive term, but what you
basically did was take whatever trash can was in
the hall, usually a 40 gallon, 35 gallon plastic,
big tub trash can, and regardless of what was in it,
And sometimes it wasn't what you might expect, but
fill it up with water and appropriately lean it on
somebody's door and then knock vigorously and run
like hell. And that was quite popular. Did you ever
get drowned out? I never got drowned out, believe
it or not. I did not. I had some shaving cream come
flying into my room out of an album cover one
evening. I had a flaming bag of refuse left on my
door one time, but other than that, no, I didn't
have the drown out. And nobody played any games
with anybody's cars? Never. Never? Okay.
What about when somebody was down the hall
showering? Any things in the showers? Yeah. I
don't have real vivid recollections of that, but
the one that I do have, I don't know that it's
appropriate to put on record, but it had to do with a
fellow who had had too many festive beverages one
night. And his roommate, of all people, led this
charge because he was tired of his roommate, I
think, coming in drunk at 3 and 4 in the morning. And
this young man who was hungover on a Sunday morning
was sitting in an open stall, which we had probably
seven in this community bath set up in Moore Hall,
and they were going to drown him out. But before
they could drown him out, he caught wind of what was
going to happen, and this is a true story, as ugly as
it is, and believe it or not, reached into the
toilet bowl and grabbed turd and flung it and hit
his roommate in the head with this thing and his
roommate slips on the way out trying to get away
from this deal and cuts himself right across the
eye. So he's running down the hall on a Sunday
morning and I'm coming this way and here he is with
with feces on his forehead and blood all over his
eyes. And I can't tell you what thoughts went
through my mind thinking, what has this guy done?
What about
in the dining hall? Were there games played,
tricks played during that time? Oh, yes. Oh, yes.
Yeah, it was very popular to confuse things such as
I'm trying to think, but you'd often want to mix
salt instead of sugar with somebody's iced tea.
and things like that. Were you and your buddies,
did anybody ever go down into the steam tunnels?
Oh, yes. Yeah, I did that. That was very popular.
Describe, as far as you know, the extent of the
steam tunnels. They were rather accommodating in
1976. I was led by a group who actually didn't live
in Moore Hall but lived in in Crocker Hall and lived
in Davis Gary Hall. And I think the goal was that we
wanted a retreat
from an attack that they had planned on the south
side dormitories when we were going to have a water
fight, which we did with Aston and Dunn Halls. And
rather than running back through campus, it was
thought that we would just disappear on the south
side and reappear on the north side. And believe it
or not, those steam tunnels accommodated even the
tallest member of our party, which was Willie
Gaines, of all people, and he's about 6'5". Steam
tunnels were quite extensive
around the campus. Were you aware when you were an
undergraduate of the existence of any secret
fraternities? No, sir. None. Was not made aware of
any until I took this job in 1981 and had some people
refer to the Sticks, and I can't remember. True
Texans. That was the first I'd heard of it, and that
was 1982.
Let's see. Back to class. What were the What were
the normal guidelines to class attendance and
behavior that you understood? I don't mean that
somebody wrote them down, huh? Well, it was just
different for different classes, Haskell. There
were some classes where the professor or the
teaching assistant or the graduate assistant, as
it were, demanded and just penalized you for not
attending class. There were others where, like in
Judge Stewart's class, you knew intuitively if
you didn't attend that there was going to be a
problem because you could read that whole book and
not pass the test. And so it was just different for
different professors. There was a lot of class
cutting though in those days, and I'm sure there
still is. But it surprised me that people could
blow off, and that was the terminology then, could
blow off a class as readily as they could. And
survive. All right. What about in class? What
about any pranks or tricks in class? Oh, I'm sure
there were some. You know, I'd have to think about
it. There's none that just come to mind. right
away. I did see a professor, a full professor,
throw an eraser at a member of the Corps who had
fallen asleep in his class, and I thought that was
funny, but it turned out to be a bad situation for
the professor. The MSC, what role did it play in
campus life? At that time, it was the hub of most of
the campus activity between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. It
really was where you gathered either to drink
coffee, study, visit. It was the bookstore, so to
speak, for anybody that lived on campus, whether
that was just the purchase of a t-shirt or, in fact,
a textbook or a... I'm trying to think what they
called them now. You may remember being a
professor yourself. Was it a Scantron sheet? I
think so. Yeah, that's where you had to go to get
that. So it wasn't the extensive building that it
is now, but it was a very comfortable place to go and
drink coffee or drink a Coke or meet somebody or
study. Did you get acquainted with the director of
the MSC during your shooting years? No, sir, did
not. I knew who he was. It was Wayne Stark. I had some
friends in the College of Business that were quite
enamored with his networking. Now, the YMCA
wasn't much. No, sir, not really. In fact, that was
where the vice president for student activities
was located, Dr. John Coldis. And I didn't have to
see him, but that is where I went to see Rick Crowe,
who I mentioned a minute ago. Guyon Hall was
leveled at about that time. Prior to my getting to
A&M, Guyon Hall was leveled, yes. This will not be
part of the finished product, but one of the real
goofs that A&M made was that the guy and family was
not notified in advance. And the first they knew
about it was a picture they saw in the Waco paper of
the rubble. And a couple years later they gave
Baylor a very impressive gift, I think three or
four million dollars. And think how handsome
those columns at the south end of Military Walk
would have been if in future planning those
columns had been left to be a part of the Rudder
Center you know, a kind of a part of the tradition.
I've heard great stories about Guy and Hall, and I
wished it would have been around when I got here.
Let's see.
Let's go back to it. As far as you recall, what did a
semester or a year cost, and where did that money
come from? I was indeed blessed that my father
provided 100% of my college expenses. I didn't
work while I was at A&M, and that was a real
fortunate situation. Looking back on it, I think I
wished I would have worked. There's two big
regrets I probably have at A&M. One,
interestingly, is that I was not in the Corps. I
think I would have been an excellent cadet. I
witnessed subsequently a lot of the camaraderie
that members of the Corps have enjoyed over their
lives. But my second biggest regret is that I
didn't work when I was a student and that didn't
provide me an opportunity to get to know more of the
inner workings of A&M and discipline myself to a
more regimented study schedule. But I'd say that
the typical semester at A&M was about $1,500 to
$2,000.
It was a rather inexpensive
I'm trying to make sure I've got books in that.
Tuition was, I want to say, $4 a semester hour. I
think that's right. I want to say room and board was
$643. Rather inexpensive. used books, three to
four hundred dollars at the most, including
varying materials that went with that, such as lab
materials and so on. But overall, I know I got by for
less than two thousand dollars a semester.
Describe the student body in terms of what were
their basic attitudes about life, and what family
background, income, and small town or big city or
what? Describe that. I'd say small towns more than
big cities. Knew a lot of kids from Houston just by
percentages, but met a lot of kids from places like
San Angelo, Tyler, Beaumont, Lake Jackson,
Pearsall. I'd have to say that most of the kids at
least that I chose to run around with were very
conservative in their backgrounds and were
raised
with somewhat of an agricultural background. And
it was interesting that here I was in the College of
Business, but running around with a lot of ag
majors. And I think it was because of my rural
interest and background, but didn't see a lot of
idealism. At least I didn't witness it. Now, maybe
it's because we didn't have much of a College of
Liberal Arts, but mostly a strong presence of
disciplined and regimented engineers and ag
majors and good old boys type. Didn't see many you
know earrings or tattoos or long hair or any
radical dress really. And in terms of
Religious faith, were you aware of any Jewish
kids? One. One is all I knew. Did it matter? No. He
was the only real Jewish student that I knew well.
I'm sure I know there were others. Were there any
religious activities on campus in those days that
you remember? No. I can remember the Baptist
Student Union being very aggressive in their
recruitment of our dorm. I was a Catholic. I was
involved in St. Mary's Church. I say I was
involved. I attended. I don't know that I was
involved. I played on a softball team. Describe,
as far as you recall, the St. Mary's activities
relating to the campus then. St. Mary's was
aggressive as well in making themselves known as
the Catholic Church for students, both in their
proximity and in their attitude and, quite
frankly, their scheduling. on behalf of
students. Their first Sunday service, I think,
was 845, and I assume the rationale for that was
that students didn't roll out of bed too early on
Sundays. But they also had a Oh, I forget what they
called it. It was a mass where kids played guitars
and drums and involved music. Was there a priest
assigned to the campus? No, not to my
recollection. Not to my recollection. Were there
any weeknight activities at St. Mary's? Yes there
were, several, several. And I attended some and
I'd have to say that between the Baptist church and
the Catholic church, those were the two dominant
religious cultures that I saw. the major optional
student activity organizations, band and so
forth, what were the, in terms of prestige, what
were the big prestigious student organizations?
Believe it or not, I think RHA, because of in it it
was parents weekend and they always put on casino
night and that was quite a prestigious committee
to serve on interestingly enough i didn't see or
know of a lot of kids who were serving on the muster
committee the campus muster committee where now
that probably is the most prestigious committee
there is. Student government, obviously,
student senate and so on, very prestigious and
very sought after. But RHA involved so much fun
that there was quite a desire to be involved with
the Residence Hall Association. And who were some
of the key student leaders during your
undergraduate years? Oh, Johnny Lane. Bobby
Tucker, who's now back here on campus.
Randy Mays, who I had a crush on when I was in school.
Jeff Hancock was our head Yale leader. Joe Wright.
Tim McManus.
And the president of the student body was a? Bobby
Tucker. Bobby Tucker. What about some of the other
years? Bob Harvey, who I've come to get to know here
just recently in his service on the Texas A&M
Foundation trustees. Bob was a well-respected
member of the Corps of Cadets and was a fine student
body president, and I thought was a guy that I
always looked up to. Fred McClure had just
finished his role as student body president when I
got here. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought that it would
have been. Okay, because I was waiting for it. So he
had just finished. He had just finished, yeah.
What did you and your civilian buddies think about
the Aggie band and the singing cadets? Took great
pride in it. Took great pride in the band and the
singing cadets as well. My second roommate at A&M
was a member of the scene cadets, and I had great
insight into what they represented on behalf of
A&M. So, yeah, I had a tremendous appreciation and
respect for the scene cadets. Great ambassadors
for Texas A&M. I saw a new, to me, a new bumper
sticker the other day. A young lady driving a car
with a bumper sticker saying, I love my BQ. Yeah,
I've seen that before. I hadn't seen that one. Do
you remember some important celebrity person?